# barricelli54
A C++ implementation of Nils Aall Barricelli's computational worlds as
described in his 1954 paper _Esempi Numerici di Processi di Evoluzione_.
The program regenerates each of the figures shown in the paper.

## Compilation
The source code is a single C++ file `barricelli.cpp` that lives in the `src` directory. It should be compiled with a C++20 (or later) compiler.

For Linux users, the `compile` script in the base directory should
compile the source code for you. The output is an executable file
`barricelli54` that lives in the base directory.

## Use
Once compiled, the program can be run with the command:
```
barricelli54 [-c] n
```
where `n` is the figure number to be reproduced, and the `-c` flag,
if present, specifies that output should be in CSV format. If the `-c`
flag is omitted, the output is space-separated and padded so columns
of digits are aligned.

## Converting CSV files to images
To convert the CSV files generated by the `barricelli54` program into
PNG images that match the style of those presented in Barricelli's 1954
paper, the `csv2img.py` script is provided in the base directory.

This can be run as follows:
```
python3 csv2img.py [-b] my_csv_file.csv [label_specs...]
```
where `my_csv_file.csv` is a CSV file such as those generated by
`barricelli54`. The `-b` flag, if present, specifies that grid lines
should be included in the output. One or more `label_specs` can
optionally be specified to print labels above and/or below the
generated image at specified positions. See the `csv2img.py` file
for details of usage.

The script produces a PNG file with the same basename as the specified
CSV file (e.g. `my_csv_file.png`).

A Bash script `gen-figs-with-labels` is provided that generates
Figures 8-11 with the labels as they appear in the 1954 paper.
